README.md, before:

﻿# Summary of Exercises in `Exercises1.cs`

The `Exercises1.cs` file contains a series of exercises designed to practice using Dapper, a micro ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) library for .NET. The exercises are focused on connecting to a MySQL database, executing various SQL queries, and handling the results using Dapper's methods.

## Exercises

1. **Exercise0:** Tests the ability to connect to a MySQL database using a connection string. Returns a boolean indicating the success of the connection.

2. **ExerciseScalar1:** Counts the number of movies in the database. Returns the count as an integer.

3. **ExerciseScalar2:** Counts the number of female actors in the database. Returns the count as an integer.

4. **ExerciseScalar3:** Checks if there are any reviewers with an empty name or no name (null). Returns a boolean indicating the result.

5. **ExerciseScalar4:** Finds the number of movies that have a rating higher (stars) than 8.5. Returns the count as an integer.

6. **ExerciseScalar5:** Finds the actor full name (FirstName , ' ' , LastName) who performs in the most movies. Returns the full name as a string.

7. **ExerciseScalar6:** Finds which movie (return title) has the highest average rating. Returns the movie title as a string.

8. **ExercisesQuerySingle:** Finds the first and last name of the actor with ActorId = 101. Returns the names as a string.

9. **ExercisesQuerySingle2:** Finds the first and last name of the director and the year and duration from the movie with the name 'American Beauty'. Returns the details as a string.

10. **ExerciseQuerySingle3:** Tries to find a movie that doesn't exist. Returns null if the movie doesn't exist.

11. **ExerciseQuerySingleOrDefault1:** Tries to find a movie that doesn't exist and returns null if the movie doesn't exist.

12. **ExerciseQueryFirst:** Returns the first movie with the language 'English'. Returns the movie details as a string.

13. **ExerciseQueryDynamic:** Returns the title and year of the first 10 movies ordered by title as a list of dynamic objects.

14. **ExerciseQuery:** Returns the title and year of the first 10 movies ordered by title as a list of `ResultExerciseQuery` objects.

15. **ExerciseQuery2:** Finds all the titles of the movies directed by 'Kevin Spacey'. Returns the movie titles as a list of strings.

16. **GetMovieById:** Gets a movie by movieId, returns a `Movie` Object that contains the Title, Year, Duration, Language, ReleaseDate, ReleaseCountryCode.

17. **GetMovieById2:** Similar to `GetMovieById`, but returns a nullable `Movie` object. If the movie doesn't exist, it returns null.

Each exercise is accompanied by a unit test to verify the correctness of the implemented method. The exercises cover a range of Dapper's capabilities, from executing simple scalar queries to handling complex queries that return multiple rows and columns.

# Summary of Exercises in `Exercises2.cs`

The `Exercises2.cs` file contains a series of exercises designed to practice using Dapper, a micro ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) library for .NET. The exercises are focused on connecting to a MySQL database, executing various SQL queries, and handling the results using Dapper's methods.

## Exercises

1. **GetCustomerByEmail:** Retrieves a list of customers by their email. The SQL return method used here is `Query<CustomerForSqlInjection>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `CustomerForSqlInjection` objects.

2. **GetCustomerByEmail2:** Similar to `GetCustomerByEmail`, but with SQL injection prevention. The SQL return method used here is `Query<CustomerForSqlInjection>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `CustomerForSqlInjection` objects.

3. **ViewExercises1:** Retrieves a list of rental views. The SQL return method used here is `Query<RentalView>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `RentalView` objects.

4. **ViewExercises2:** Retrieves a list of top rental customers. The SQL return method used here is `Query<TopRentalCustomers>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `TopRentalCustomers` objects.

5. **ViewExercises3:** Retrieves a list of rentals by country. The SQL return method used here is `Query<RentalByCountry>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `RentalByCountry` objects.

6. **ViewExercises4:** Similar to `ViewExercises3`, but with a different implementation. The SQL return method used here is `Query<RentalByCountry>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `RentalByCountry` objects.

7. **ExerciseParameter1:** Retrieves a list of customer searches based on the city. The SQL return method used here is `Query<CustomerSearch>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `CustomerSearch` objects.

8. **ExerciseParameter2:** Similar to `ExerciseParameter1`, but with an optional city parameter. The SQL return method used here is `Query<CustomerSearch>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `CustomerSearch` objects.

9. **ExerciseParameter3:** Retrieves a list of customer searches based on the country and city. The SQL return method used here is `Query<CustomerSearch>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `CustomerSearch` objects.

10. **ExerciseParameter4:** Retrieves a list of customer searches based on a `CustomerSearchParameters` object. The SQL return method used here is `Query<CustomerSearch>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `CustomerSearch` objects.

11. **InsertCustomerCopy:** Inserts a copy of a customer into the database. The SQL return method used here is `Execute`, which executes a command that does not return rows.

12. **InsertCityExercises:** Inserts a city into the database. The SQL return method used here is `Execute`, which executes a command that does not return rows.

Each exercise is accompanied by a unit test to verify the correctness of the implemented method. The exercises cover a range of Dapper's capabilities, from executing simple queries to handling complex queries that return multiple rows and columns.


# Summary of Exercises in `Exercises3.cs`

The `Exercises3.cs` file contains a series of exercises designed to practice using Dapper, a micro ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) library for .NET. The exercises are focused on connecting to a MySQL database, executing various SQL queries, and handling the results using Dapper's methods.

## Exercises

1. **ExerciseOneToOne:** This exercise is about creating a query that returns all payments with the customer information. The SQL return method used here would be `Query<Payment, Customer, Payment>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `Payment` objects, each containing a `Customer` object.

2. **ExerciseOneToOneTwoJoins:** Similar to `ExerciseOneToOne`, but now with an additional join to the address table. The SQL return method used here would be `Query<Payment, Customer, Address, Payment>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `Payment` objects, each containing a `Customer` object, which in turn contains an `Address` object.

3. **ExerciseOneToManyWithDictionaryMethod:** This exercise is about creating a query that returns all stores with their customers. The SQL return method used here would be `Query<Store, Customer, Store>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `Store` objects, each containing a list of `Customer` objects.

4. **ExerciseOneToManyWithJsonMethod:** Similar to `ExerciseOneToManyWithDictionaryMethod`, but now using the JSON method. The SQL return method used here would be `Query<Store, Customer, Store>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `Store` objects, each containing a list of `Customer` objects.

5. **GetFilmsIncludeActorsDictionaryMethod:** This exercise is about creating a query that returns a list of films with their actors. The SQL return method used here would be `Query<Film, Actor, Film>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `Film` objects, each containing a list of `Actor` objects.

6. **GetFilmsIncludeActorsJsonMethod:** Similar to `GetFilmsIncludeActorsDictionaryMethod`, but now using the JSON method. The SQL return method used here would be `Query<Film, Actor, Film>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `Film` objects, each containing a list of `Actor` objects.

Each exercise is accompanied by a unit test to verify the correctness of the implemented method. The exercises cover a range of Dapper's capabilities, from executing simple queries to handling complex queries that return multiple rows and columns.

Commit message:

Renamed SQL query files. Expanded README.md

README.md, after:

﻿# Introduction to Dapper

This project contains a series of exercises designed to practice using Dapper, a micro ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) library for .NET. The exercises are focused on connecting to a MySQL database, executing various SQL queries, and handling the results using Dapper's methods.
You will also find several examples of how to use Dapper to execute SQL queries and handle the results.

## Preqrequisites

- MySQL server installed and running on your local machine
- (optional) MySQL Workbench to visualize the database

## Getting Started

1. Clone the repository to your local machine using Git CLI, GitHub Desktop or your favorite IDE that supports Git.
2. Open the project in Visual Studio or your favorite IDE.
3. Execute the SQL scripts present in the `SQL` folder to created the necessary databases and tables and populate them with data.' The scripts are named `Create[Database]Db.sql`, `Insert[Database]Data.sql` and `CreateAndInsert[Database]Db.sql`. All SQL scripts can be executed in MySQL Workbench, exept for `InsertSakilaData.sql` which is too large to be executed in MySQL Workbench. Insert the data to the `sakila` database using the MySQL command line client by executing the following command: `SOURCE [path to the InsertSakilaData.sql file]`.
4. `json-views.sql` is a script that creates a view in the sakila database. This view is used in the exercises in the `Exercises2.cs` file. Execute this script in MySQL Workbench to create the view.
5. Start by checking out the examples present in the `Examples[xxx].cs` files. These files contain several examples of how to use Dapper to execute SQL queries and handle the results.
6. When ready, move on to the exercises present in the `Exercises1.cs`, `Exercises2.cs` and `Exercises3.cs` files. Each exercise is accompanied by a unit test to verify the correctness of the implemented method.
7. Up to and including the exercises in `Exercises2.cs` should be completed before moving on to the exercises in `Exercises3.cs`. The exercises in `Exercises3.cs` are more advanced and build on the knowledge gained from the previous exercises.

# Summary of Exercises in `Exercises1.cs`

The `Exercises1.cs` file contains a series of exercises designed to practice using Dapper, a micro ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) library for .NET. The exercises are focused on connecting to a MySQL database, executing various SQL queries, and handling the results using Dapper's methods.

## Exercises

1. **Exercise0:** Tests the ability to connect to a MySQL database using a connection string. Returns a boolean indicating the success of the connection.

2. **ExerciseScalar1:** Counts the number of movies in the database. Returns the count as an integer.

3. **ExerciseScalar2:** Counts the number of female actors in the database. Returns the count as an integer.

4. **ExerciseScalar3:** Checks if there are any reviewers with an empty name or no name (null). Returns a boolean indicating the result.

5. **ExerciseScalar4:** Finds the number of movies that have a rating higher (stars) than 8.5. Returns the count as an integer.

6. **ExerciseScalar5:** Finds the actor full name (FirstName , ' ' , LastName) who performs in the most movies. Returns the full name as a string.

7. **ExerciseScalar6:** Finds which movie (return title) has the highest average rating. Returns the movie title as a string.

8. **ExercisesQuerySingle:** Finds the first and last name of the actor with ActorId = 101. Returns the names as a string.

9. **ExercisesQuerySingle2:** Finds the first and last name of the director and the year and duration from the movie with the name 'American Beauty'. Returns the details as a string.

10. **ExerciseQuerySingle3:** Tries to find a movie that doesn't exist. Returns null if the movie doesn't exist.

11. **ExerciseQuerySingleOrDefault1:** Tries to find a movie that doesn't exist and returns null if the movie doesn't exist.

12. **ExerciseQueryFirst:** Returns the first movie with the language 'English'. Returns the movie details as a string.

13. **ExerciseQueryDynamic:** Returns the title and year of the first 10 movies ordered by title as a list of dynamic objects.

14. **ExerciseQuery:** Returns the title and year of the first 10 movies ordered by title as a list of `ResultExerciseQuery` objects.

15. **ExerciseQuery2:** Finds all the titles of the movies directed by 'Kevin Spacey'. Returns the movie titles as a list of strings.

16. **GetMovieById:** Gets a movie by movieId, returns a `Movie` Object that contains the Title, Year, Duration, Language, ReleaseDate, ReleaseCountryCode.

17. **GetMovieById2:** Similar to `GetMovieById`, but returns a nullable `Movie` object. If the movie doesn't exist, it returns null.

Each exercise is accompanied by a unit test to verify the correctness of the implemented method. The exercises cover a range of Dapper's capabilities, from executing simple scalar queries to handling complex queries that return multiple rows and columns.

# Summary of Exercises in `Exercises2.cs`

The `Exercises2.cs` file contains a series of exercises designed to practice using Dapper, a micro ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) library for .NET. The exercises are focused on connecting to a MySQL database, executing various SQL queries, and handling the results using Dapper's methods.

## Exercises

1. **GetCustomerByEmail:** Retrieves a list of customers by their email. The SQL return method used here is `Query<CustomerForSqlInjection>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `CustomerForSqlInjection` objects.

2. **GetCustomerByEmail2:** Similar to `GetCustomerByEmail`, but with SQL injection prevention. The SQL return method used here is `Query<CustomerForSqlInjection>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `CustomerForSqlInjection` objects.

3. **ViewExercises1:** Retrieves a list of rental views. The SQL return method used here is `Query<RentalView>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `RentalView` objects.

4. **ViewExercises2:** Retrieves a list of top rental customers. The SQL return method used here is `Query<TopRentalCustomers>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `TopRentalCustomers` objects.

5. **ViewExercises3:** Retrieves a list of rentals by country. The SQL return method used here is `Query<RentalByCountry>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `RentalByCountry` objects.

6. **ViewExercises4:** Similar to `ViewExercises3`, but with a different implementation. The SQL return method used here is `Query<RentalByCountry>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `RentalByCountry` objects.

7. **ExerciseParameter1:** Retrieves a list of customer searches based on the city. The SQL return method used here is `Query<CustomerSearch>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `CustomerSearch` objects.

8. **ExerciseParameter2:** Similar to `ExerciseParameter1`, but with an optional city parameter. The SQL return method used here is `Query<CustomerSearch>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `CustomerSearch` objects.

9. **ExerciseParameter3:** Retrieves a list of customer searches based on the country and city. The SQL return method used here is `Query<CustomerSearch>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `CustomerSearch` objects.

10. **ExerciseParameter4:** Retrieves a list of customer searches based on a `CustomerSearchParameters` object. The SQL return method used here is `Query<CustomerSearch>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `CustomerSearch` objects.

11. **InsertCustomerCopy:** Inserts a copy of a customer into the database. The SQL return method used here is `Execute`, which executes a command that does not return rows.

12. **InsertCityExercises:** Inserts a city into the database. The SQL return method used here is `Execute`, which executes a command that does not return rows.

Each exercise is accompanied by a unit test to verify the correctness of the implemented method. The exercises cover a range of Dapper's capabilities, from executing simple queries to handling complex queries that return multiple rows and columns.


# Summary of Exercises in `Exercises3.cs`

The `Exercises3.cs` file contains a series of exercises designed to practice using Dapper, a micro ORM (Object-Relational Mapping) library for .NET. The exercises are focused on connecting to a MySQL database, executing various SQL queries, and handling the results using Dapper's methods.

## Exercises

1. **ExerciseOneToOne:** This exercise is about creating a query that returns all payments with the customer information. The SQL return method used here would be `Query<Payment, Customer, Payment>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `Payment` objects, each containing a `Customer` object.

2. **ExerciseOneToOneTwoJoins:** Similar to `ExerciseOneToOne`, but now with an additional join to the address table. The SQL return method used here would be `Query<Payment, Customer, Address, Payment>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `Payment` objects, each containing a `Customer` object, which in turn contains an `Address` object.

3. **ExerciseOneToManyWithDictionaryMethod:** This exercise is about creating a query that returns all stores with their customers. The SQL return method used here would be `Query<Store, Customer, Store>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `Store` objects, each containing a list of `Customer` objects.

4. **ExerciseOneToManyWithJsonMethod:** Similar to `ExerciseOneToManyWithDictionaryMethod`, but now using the JSON method. The SQL return method used here would be `Query<Store, Customer, Store>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `Store` objects, each containing a list of `Customer` objects.

5. **GetFilmsIncludeActorsDictionaryMethod:** This exercise is about creating a query that returns a list of films with their actors. The SQL return method used here would be `Query<Film, Actor, Film>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `Film` objects, each containing a list of `Actor` objects.

6. **GetFilmsIncludeActorsJsonMethod:** Similar to `GetFilmsIncludeActorsDictionaryMethod`, but now using the JSON method. The SQL return method used here would be `Query<Film, Actor, Film>`, which executes a query and maps the result to a list of `Film` objects, each containing a list of `Actor` objects.

Each exercise is accompanied by a unit test to verify the correctness of the implemented method. The exercises cover a range of Dapper's capabilities, from executing simple queries to handling complex queries that return multiple rows and columns.
